README.md, before:

vagrant-exec [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/vagrant-exec.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/vagrant-exec)
===============

Vagrant plugin to execute commands within the context of VM synced directory.

Description
-----------

You will probably use the plugin if you don't want to SSH into the box to execute commands simply because your machine environment is already configured (e.g. I use ZSH and TextMate bundles to run specs/features).

Example
-------

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
/vagrant
```

Installation
------------

```bash
➜ vagrant plugin install vagrant-exec
```

Configuration
-------------

### Custom root

The root directory can be configured using Vagrantfile.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.root = '/custom'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /custom && bundle exec pwd"
```

### Prepend with

You can tell `vagrant-exec` to prepend all the commands with custom string.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.prepend_with 'bundle exec'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && bundle exec pwd"
```

You can also limit prepend to specific commands and combine them.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.prepend_with 'bundle exec', :only => %w(rails rspec cucumber)
  config.exec.prepend_with 'rvmsudo', :only => %w(gem)
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec rails c
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && bundle exec rails c"
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec gem install bundler
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && rvmsudo gem install bundler"
```

### Environment variables

You can add environment variables to be exported before.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.env['RAILS_ENV'] = 'test'
  config.exec.env['RAILS_ROOT'] = '/vagrant'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && export RAILS_ENV=test && export RAILS_ROOT=/vagrant && pwd"
```

Acceptance tests
----------------

Before running features, you'll need to bootstrap box.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:bootstrap
```

To run features, execute the following rake task.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:run
```

After you're done, remove Vagrant box.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:cleanup
```

Known issues
-----------------------------

`vagrant-exec` cannot properly handle `-v` in command args (it's caught somewhere before plugin), so executing `vagrant exec ruby -v` will return Vagrant version rather than Ruby. As a workaround, wrap it in quotes: `vagrant exec "ruby -v"`.

Note on Patches/Pull Requests
-----------------------------

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

Copyright
---------

Copyright (c) 2013-2013 Alex Rodionov. See LICENSE.md for details.

Commit message:

Add a patch for running local scripts.

README.md, after:

vagrant-exec [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/vagrant-exec.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/vagrant-exec)
===============

Vagrant plugin to execute commands within the context of VM synced directory.

Patched
---

This version of vagrant-exec has been patched to allow running local
scripts from `.vagrant/local-scripts`. If a file with the specified
name exists in this directory it will be called on the host machine,
otherwise the usual logic applies. This is mainly helping to get nicer
project automation where some commands need to be triggered on the
host.

Description
-----------

You will probably use the plugin if you don't want to SSH into the box to execute commands simply because your machine environment is already configured (e.g. I use ZSH and TextMate bundles to run specs/features).

Example
-------

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
/vagrant
```

Installation
------------

```bash
➜ vagrant plugin install vagrant-exec
```

Configuration
-------------

### Custom root

The root directory can be configured using Vagrantfile.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.root = '/custom'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /custom && bundle exec pwd"
```

### Prepend with

You can tell `vagrant-exec` to prepend all the commands with custom string.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.prepend_with 'bundle exec'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && bundle exec pwd"
```

You can also limit prepend to specific commands and combine them.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.prepend_with 'bundle exec', :only => %w(rails rspec cucumber)
  config.exec.prepend_with 'rvmsudo', :only => %w(gem)
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec rails c
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && bundle exec rails c"
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec gem install bundler
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && rvmsudo gem install bundler"
```

### Environment variables

You can add environment variables to be exported before.

```ruby
Vagrant.configure('2') do |config|
  config.vm.box = 'precise32'
  config.exec.env['RAILS_ENV'] = 'test'
  config.exec.env['RAILS_ROOT'] = '/vagrant'
end
```

```bash
➜ vagrant exec pwd
# is the same as
➜ vagrant ssh -c "cd /vagrant && export RAILS_ENV=test && export RAILS_ROOT=/vagrant && pwd"
```

Acceptance tests
----------------

Before running features, you'll need to bootstrap box.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:bootstrap
```

To run features, execute the following rake task.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:run
```

After you're done, remove Vagrant box.

```bash
➜ bundle exec rake features:cleanup
```

Known issues
-----------------------------

`vagrant-exec` cannot properly handle `-v` in command args (it's caught somewhere before plugin), so executing `vagrant exec ruby -v` will return Vagrant version rather than Ruby. As a workaround, wrap it in quotes: `vagrant exec "ruby -v"`.

Note on Patches/Pull Requests
-----------------------------

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

Copyright
---------

Copyright (c) 2013-2013 Alex Rodionov. See LICENSE.md for details.
